---
layout: software-layout
title: Software | Mohsen Vakilian
---

#### Cascade: a universal programmer-asssisted type qualifier inference tool

Type qualifiers augment an existing type system to check more properties. A
cost of using type qualifiers is inserting them to source code. Cascade is a
universal type qualifier inference tool. That is, it takes an existing type
qualifier checker and turns it into an interactive type qualifier inference
tool. While Cascade has been developed as an Eclipse plug-in, it is easy to
build and port to other programming environments.

[Cascade webpage](https://github.com/reprogrammer/cascade)

#### CompositionalRefactoring: usable automation for complex refactorings

CompositionalRefactoring is an Eclipse plugin that automates a set of primitive
refactorings. Programmers can compose the primitive refactorings to apply more
complex refactorings.

[CompositionalRefactoring
webpage](http://codingspectator.cs.illinois.edu/compositional-refactoring/)

#### CodingSpectator: automatic collection of detailed refactoring usage data

CodingSpectator is an Eclipse plug-in for recording detailed refactoring usage
data. In addition, CodingSpectator provides a framework to automatically submit
the collected data to a central repository.

[CodingSpectator webpage](http://codingspectator.cs.illinois.edu/)

#### CodingTracker: recording and replaying fine-grained code changes

CodingTracker is an Eclipse plug-in that can record and replay fine-grained code
changes, e.g., insertion or deletion of a character. In addition, it can infer
higher-level changes, such as refactorings, from the recorded sequence of
changes.

[CodingTracker webpage](http://codingtracker.web.engr.illinois.edu/)

#### Keshmesh: static detection of Java concurrency bug patterns

Keshmesh is an advanced static analysis tool for finding Java concurrency bug
patterns. Keshmesh combines the power of [WALA](http://wala.sf.net) with the
popularity of [FindBugs](http://findbugs.sf.net). Keshmesh can find complex
concurrency bug patterns through its inter-procedural points-to analyses.

[Keshmesh webpage](http://keshmesh.cs.illinois.edu)

#### DPJizer: a refactoring tool for inferring method effect summaries

DPJizer is an Eclipse plugin that automatically summarizes the effects of
methods as required by [Deterministic Parallel Java
(DPJ)](http://dpj.cs.illinois.edu/). DPJ is a Java-based programming language
for safe parallel programming. Through its compile-time checking, DPJ provides
deterministic-by-default semantics in the presence of parallelism.

[DPJizer webpage](http://dpj.cs.uiuc.edu/DPJ/DPJizer.html)

