---
layout: publication-layout
title: Use, Disuse, and Misuse of Automated Refactorings | Mohsen Vakilian
---

# Use, Disuse, and Misuse of Automated Refactorings

by [Mohsen Vakilian]({{site.url}}/), [Nicholas
Chen]({{site.url_nicholas_chen}}), [Stas Negara]({{site.url_stas_negara}}),
Balaji Ambresh Rajkumar, [Brian P. Bailey]({{site.url_brian_p_bailey}}), and
[Ralph E. Johnson]({{site.url_ralph_e_johnson}}).

In *Proceedings of the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)*,
2012, pp. 233â€“243.

[Paper at ACM](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2337223.2337251), [Paper at
IEEE](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICSE.2012.6227190), [Extended Version at
Illinois](http://hdl.handle.net/2142/27730), [Artifacts at
Illinois](http://codingspectator.cs.illinois.edu).

## Abstract

Though refactoring tools have been available for more than a decade, research
has shown that programmers underutilize such tools. However, little is known
about why programmers do not take advantage of these tools. We have conducted a
field study on programmers in their natural settings working on their code. As a
result, we collected a set of interaction data from about 1268 hours of
programming using our minimally intrusive data collectors. Our quantitative data
show that programmers prefer lightweight methods of invoking refactorings,
usually perform small changes using the refactoring tool, proceed with an
automated refactoring even when it may change the behavior of the program, and
rarely preview the automated refactorings. We also interviewed nine of our
participants to provide deeper insight about the patterns that we observed in
the behavioral data. We found that programmers use predictable automated
refactorings even if they have rare bugs or change the behavior of the program.
This paper reports some of the factors that affect the use of automated
refactorings such as invocation method, awareness, naming, trust, and
predictability and the major mismatches between programmers' expectations and
automated refactorings. The results of this work contribute to producing more
effective tools for refactoring complex software.

#### BibTeX

    @inproceedings{VakilianETAL2012UseDisuseMisuse,
      author = {Mohsen Vakilian and Nicholas Chen and Stas Negara and Balaji Ambresh Rajkumar and Brian P. Bailey and Ralph E. Johnson},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)},
      pages = {233--243},
      title = {Use, Disuse, and Misuse of Automated Refactorings},
      year = {2012}
    }

