---
layout: publication-layout
title: A Comparative Study of Manual and Automated Refactorings | Mohsen Vakilian
---

# A Comparative Study of Manual and Automated Refactorings

by [Stas Negara]({{site.url_stas_negara}}), [Nicholas
Chen]({{site.url_nicholas_chen}}), [Mohsen Vakilian]({{site.url}}/), [Ralph E.
Johnson]({{site.url_ralph_e_johnson}}), and [Danny Dig]({{site.url_danny_dig}}).

In *Proceedings of the European Conference on Object-Oriented Programming
(ECOOP)*, 2013, pp. 552â€“576.

[Paper at Springer](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-39038-8_23), [Paper at
Illinois](http://hdl.handle.net/2142/33783), [Artifacts at
Illinois](http://codingtracker.web.engr.illinois.edu/).

## Abstract

Despite the enormous success that manual and automated refactoring has enjoyed
during the last decade, we know little about the practice of refactoring.
Understanding the refactoring practice is important for developers, refactoring
tool builders, and researchers. Many previous approaches to study refactorings
are based on comparing code snapshots, which is imprecise, incomplete, and does
not allow answering research questions that involve time or compare manual and
automated refactoring. We present the first extended empirical study that
considers both manual and automated refactoring. This study is enabled by our
algorithm, which infers refactorings from continuous changes. We implemented and
applied this algorithm to the code evolution data collected from 23 developers
working in their natural environment for 1,520 hours. Using a corpus of 5,371
refactorings, we reveal several new facts about manual and automated
refactorings. For example, more than a half of the refactorings were performed
manually. The popularity of automated and manual refactorings differs. More than
one third of the refactorings performed by developers are clustered. For some
refactoring kinds, up to 64% of performed refactorings do not reach the Version
Control System.

#### BibTeX

    @inproceedings{NegaraETAL2013ManualRefactorings,
      author = {Stas Negara and Nicholas Chen and Mohsen Vakilian and Ralph E. Johnson and Danny Dig},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of the European Conference on Object-Oriented Programming (ECOOP)},
      pages = {552--576},
      title = {A Comparative Study of Manual and Automated Refactorings},
      year = {2013}
    }

