---
layout: publication-layout
title: A Compositional Paradigm of Automating Refactorings | Mohsen Vakilian
---

# A Compositional Paradigm of Automating Refactorings

by [Mohsen Vakilian]({{site.url}}/), [Nicholas
Chen]({{site.url_nicholas_chen}}), [Roshanak Zilouchian
Moghaddam]({{site.url_roshanak_zilouchian_moghaddam}}), [Stas
Negara]({{site.url_stas_negara}}), and [Ralph E.
Johnson]({{site.url_ralph_e_johnson}}).

In *Proceedings of the European Conference on Object-Oriented Programming
(ECOOP)*, 2013, pp. 527–551.

[Paper at Springer](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-39038-8_22), [Paper at
Illinois](http://hdl.handle.net/2142/30851), [Artifacts at
Illinois](http://codingspectator.cs.illinois.edu/compositional-refactoring/).

## Abstract

Though modern IDEs have supported refactorings for more than a decade, recent
studies suggest that programmers greatly underuse such tools, especially for
complex refactorings. Complex refactorings affect several methods or classes and
tend to be tedious and error-prone to perform by hand. To promote the use of
refactoring tools for complex changes, we propose a new paradigm for automating
refactorings called compositional refactoring. The key idea is to perform small,
predictable changes using a tool and manually compose them into complex changes.
This paradigm trades off some level of automation by higher levels of
predictability and control. We show that this paradigm is natural, because our
analysis of programmers’ use of the Eclipse refactoring tool in the wild shows
that they frequently batch and compose automated refactorings. We then show that
programmers are receptive to this new paradigm through a survey of 100
respondents. Finally, we show that the compositional paradigm is effective
through a controlled study of 13 professional programmers, comparing this
paradigm to the existing wizard-based one.

#### BibTeX

    @inproceedings{VakilianETAL2013Compositional,
      author = {Mohsen Vakilian and Nicholas Chen and Roshanak Zilouchian Moghaddam and Stas Negara and Ralph E. Johnson},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of the European Conference on Object-Oriented Programming (ECOOP)}, 
      pages = {527--551},
      title = {A Compositional Paradigm of Automating Refactorings},
      year = {2013}
    }

