---
layout: publication-layout
title: Alternate Refactoring Paths Reveal Usability Problems | Mohsen Vakilian
---

# Alternate Refactoring Paths Reveal Usability Problems

by [Mohsen Vakilian]({{site.url}}/) and [Ralph E.
Johnson]({{site.url_ralph_e_johnson}}).

In *Proceedings of the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)*,
2014, pp. 1106â€“1116.

[Paper at ACM](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2568225.2568282), [Paper at
Illinois](http://hdl.handle.net/2142/42604), [Artifacts at
Illinois](http://hdl.handle.net/2142/47414).

## Abstract

Modern Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) support many refactorings.
Yet, programmers greatly underuse automated refactorings. Recent studies have
applied traditional usability testing methodologies such as surveys, lab
studies, and interviews to find the usability problems of refactoring tools.
However, these methodologies can only identify certain kinds of usability
problems. The critical incident technique (CIT) is a general methodology that
uncovers usability problems by analyzing troubling user interactions. We adapt
CIT to refactoring tools and show that alternate refactoring paths are
indicators of the usability problems of refactoring tools. We define an
alternate refactoring path as a sequence of user interactions that contains
cancellations, reported messages, or repeated invocations of the refactoring
tool. We evaluated our method on a large corpus of refactoring usage data, which
we collected during a field study on 36 programmers over three months. This
method revealed 15 usability problems, 13 of which were previously unknown. We
reported these problems and proposed design improvements to Eclipse developers.
The developers acknowledged all of the problems and have already fixed four of
them. This result suggests that analyzing alternate paths is effective at
discovering the usability problems of interactive program transformation (IPT)
tools.

#### BibTeX

    @inproceedings{VakilianJohnson2014Alternate,
      author = {Mohsen Vakilian and Ralph E. Johnson},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)},
      pages = {1106--1116},
      title = {Alternate Refactoring Paths Reveal Usability Problems},
      url = {http://hdl.handle.net/2142/42604},
      year = {2014}
    }

